Earthsake is an initiative found to efface the affects of earthquakes all over the world after the Catastrophic 6th February Turkey-Syria earthquakes. We should take precautions and do our best to avoid catastrophic destructions of earthquakes for earth’s sake. Earthquake’s affects on humans, animals, livings, governments, countries, nations are heavily caused by their overlooking to precautions because of corruptions in the administrations and the nation’s unawareness of the serious risks.

Earthsake initiatives product is the mobile application as a precaution to locate the victims under wreckages hours ago from first contact. The mobile app aims to provide the location information of the people who are under wreckages and can not reach to their phones or do any communication in any channel. After the app is installed on the phone and given gps, mobile data, sms, wifi, Bluetooth run in background, gyroscope, accelerometer permissions; It starts measuring the gps location and checking if any recent earthquake happened close. If there has been any earthquakes close to the phone, it measures the movement of the phone by the accelerometer and gyroscope. If the phone did not move for over a period the application sends alert messages via sms, wifi, mobile data, Bluetooth channels to inform the rescue teams automatically. Further versions could include the usage of lidar sensors located on phone’s camera compartment to visualize the wreckage area in a 3d mapping system to navigate the rescue teams.

Application is written with Expo React Native, developed for both IOS and Android and in the future is planned to coded natively for both operating systems.
